# Advanced Objects 

## 1. Introduction

Remember, objects in JavaScript are containers that store **data and functionality**. In this lesson, we will build upon the fundamentals of creating objects and explore some advanced concepts.

So if there are no objections, let’s learn more about objects!

In this lesson we will cover these topics:

- how to use the `this` keyword.
- conveying privacy in JavaScript methods.
- defining getters and setters in objects.
- creating factory functions.
- using destructuring techniques.



## 2. The this Keyword

Objects are collections of related data and functionality. We store that functionality in methods on our objects:

```js
const goat = {
  dietType: 'herbivore',
  makeSound() {
    console.log('baaa');
  }
};
```

In our `goat` object we have a `.makeSound()` method. We can invoke the `.makeSound()` method on `goat`.

```js
goat.makeSound(); // Prints baaa
```

Nice, we have a `goat` object that can print `baaa` to the console. Everything seems to be working fine. What if we wanted to add a new method to our `goat` object called `.diet()` that prints the `goat`‘s `dietType`?

```js
const goat = {
  dietType: 'herbivore',
  makeSound() {
    console.log('baaa');
  },
  diet() {
    console.log(dietType);
  }
};
goat.diet(); 
// Output will be "ReferenceError: dietType is not defined"
```

That’s strange, why is `dietType` not defined even though it’s a property of `goat`? That’s because inside the scope of the `.diet()` method, **we don’t automatically have access to other properties of the `goat` object.**

Here’s where the `this` keyword comes to the rescue. If we change the `.diet()` method to use the `this`, the `.diet()` works! :

```
const goat = {
  dietType: 'herbivore',
  makeSound() {
    console.log('baaa');
  },
  diet() {
    console.log(this.dietType);
  }
};
 
goat.diet(); 
// Output: herbivore
```

The `this` keyword **references the *calling object*** which provides access to the calling object’s properties. In the example above, the calling object is `goat` and by using `this` we’re accessing the `goat` object itself, and then the `dietType` property of `goat` by using property dot notation.

Let’s get comfortable using the `this` keyword in a method.



### Instructions

```js
const robot = {
  
};
```



**1.**

Let’s create a new object to practice using `this`.

In **main.js** there is an object `robot`, add a property of `model` and assign to it a value of `'1E78V2'`. Add another property, `energyLevel` and assign to it a value of `100`.

```js
const robot = {
  model: '1E78V2',
  energyLevel: 100
};
```



**2.**

Inside the `robot` object, add a method named `provideInfo`. Inside the body of `provideInfo()`, return the following string by using interpolation:

```
I am MODEL and my current energy level is ENERGYLEVEL.
```

Replace ‘MODEL’ and ‘ENERGYLEVEL’ with the calling object’s `model` and `energyLevel` property. Remember, to get the access to the calling object’s properties inside a method, you have to use the `this` keyword!

```js
const robot = {
  model: '1E78V2',
  energyLevel: 100,
  
  provideInfo() {
    return `I am ${this.model} and my current energy level is ${this.energyLevel}.`
  }
};
```



**3.**

Now to check `.provideInfo()` has access to the internal properties of `robot`. Log the result of calling `.provideInfo()` method on `robot` to the console.

```js
console.log(robot.provideInfo());
```



## 3. Arrow Functions and this

We saw in the previous exercise that for a method, the calling object is the object the method belongs to. If we use the `this` keyword in a method then the value of `this` is the calling object. However, it becomes a bit more complicated when we start using arrow functions for methods. Take a look at the example below:

```js
const goat = {
  dietType: 'herbivore',
  makeSound() {
    console.log('baaa');
  },
  diet: () => {
    console.log(this.dietType);
  }
};
 
goat.diet(); // Prints undefined
```

In the comment, you can see that `goat.diet()` would log `undefined`. So what happened? Notice that the `.diet()` method is defined using an arrow function.

Arrow functions inherently *bind*, or tie, an already defined `this` value **to the function itself that is NOT the calling object.** In the code snippet above, the value of `this` is the *global object*, or an object that exists in the global scope, which doesn’t have a `dietType` property and therefore returns `undefined`.

To read more about either arrow functions or the global object check out the MDN documentation of [the global object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Global_object) and [arrow functions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions).

The key takeaway from the example above is to *avoid* using arrow functions when using `this` in a method!



### Instructions

```js
const robot = {
  energyLevel: 100,
  checkEnergy: () => {
    console.log(`Energy is currently at ${this.energyLevel}%.`)
  }
}

robot.checkEnergy();
```



**1.**

Currently the `.checkEnergy()` method is not producing the correct output because it is using arrow function syntax.

Refactor, or change, the method to use a function expression. You can write the function using either longhand or shorthand format.

After refactoring the method, notice that `.checkEnergy()` has access to the other internal properties of the `robot` object.

```js
const robot = {
  energyLevel: 100,
  checkEnergy() {
    console.log(`Energy is currently at ${this.energyLevel}%.`)
  }
}

robot.checkEnergy(); // Energy is currently at 100%.
```



## 4. Privacy

Accessing and updating properties is fundamental in working with objects. However, there are cases in which we don’t want other code simply accessing and updating an object’s properties. When discussing *privacy* in objects, we define it as the idea that only certain properties should be mutable or able to change in value.

Certain languages have privacy built-in for objects, but JavaScript does not have this feature. Rather, JavaScript developers follow naming conventions that signal to other developers how to interact with a property. One common convention is to place an underscore `_` before the name of a property to mean that the property should not be altered. Here’s an example of using `_` to prepend a property.

```js
const bankAccount = {
  _amount: 1000
}
```

In the example above, the `_amount` is not intended to be directly manipulated.

Even so, it is still possible to reassign `_amount`:

```js
bankAccount._amount = 1000000;
```

In later exercises, we’ll cover the use of methods called *getters* and *setters*. Both methods are used to respect the intention of properties prepended, or began, with `_`. Getters can return the value of internal properties and setters can safely reassign property values. For now, let’s see what happens if we can change properties that don’t have setters or getters.



### Instructions

```js
const robot = {
  _energyLevel: 100,
  recharge(){
    this._energyLevel += 30;
    console.log(`Recharged! Energy is currently at ${this._energyLevel}%.`)
  }
};
```

**1.**

Below the `robot` object, reassign the `_energyLevel` property to `'high'`.

```js
robot._energyLevel = 'hight';
```



**2.**

Now take a look at the new `recharge` method in `robot`. `.recharge()` will add `30` to `_energyLevel`.

What will happen now that `_energyLevel` isn’t a number?

Call `.recharge()` on `robot` to find out.

Notice that a funky string is printed to the console! This is known as a side-effect of type-coercion. No need to worry about what this means for now, but it’s important to understand that you can cause unwanted side-effects when mutating objects and their properties.

```js
robot.recharge(); //Recharged! Energy is currently at hight30%.
```





## 5. Getters

*Getters* are methods that get and return the internal properties of an object. But they can do more than just retrieve the value of a property! Let’s take a look at a getter method:

```js
const person = {
  _firstName: 'John',
  _lastName: 'Doe',
  get fullName() {
    if (this._firstName && this._lastName){
      return `${this._firstName} ${this._lastName}`;
    } else {
      return 'Missing a first name or a last name.';
    }
  }
}
 
// To call the getter method: 
person.fullName; // 'John Doe'
```

Notice that in the getter method above:

- We use the `get` keyword followed by a function.
- We use an `if...else` conditional to check if both `_firstName` and `_lastName` exist (by making sure they both return truthy values) and then return a different value depending on the result.
- We can access the calling object’s internal properties using `this`. In `fullName`, we’re accessing both `this._firstName` and `this._lastName`.
- In the last line we call `fullName` on `person`. In general, getter methods do not need to be called with a set of parentheses. Syntactically, it looks like we’re accessing a property.

Now that we’ve gone over syntax, let’s discuss some notable advantages of using getter methods:

- Getters can perform an action on the data when getting a property.
- Getters can return different values using conditionals.
- In a getter, we can access the properties of the calling object using `this`.
- The functionality of our code is easier for other developers to understand.

Another thing to keep in mind when using getter (and setter) methods is that properties cannot share the same name as the getter/setter function. If we do so, then calling the method will result in an infinite call stack error. One workaround is to add an underscore before the property name like we did in the example above.

Great, let’s go getter!



### Instructions

```js
const robot = {
  _model: '1E78V2',
  _energyLevel: 100,
  
};
```



**1.**

In `robot`, create a getter method named `energyLevel` using the `get` keyword. Leave function body blank for now.

```js
const robot = {
  _model: '1E78V2',
  _energyLevel: 100,
  get energyLevel() {
    
  }
};
```



**2.**

Inside the getter method, add an `if` statement to check if `this._energyLevel` is a number using the `typeof` operator. If that condition is truthy, return `'My current energy level is ENERGYLEVEL'`. Replace `ENERGYLEVEL` with the value of `this._energyLevel`.

Make sure you return the string and not logging it to the console.

```js
const robot = {
  _model: '1E78V2',
  _energyLevel: 100,
  get energyLevel() {
    if (typeof this._energyLevel === 'number') {
      return `My current energy level is ${this._energyLevel}`
    }
  }
};
```



**3.**

If `this._energyLevel` isn’t a number it could be that the `_energyLevel` property was altered. Let’s add a default return statement for when such a scenario arises.

Add an `else` statement that returns `'System malfunction: cannot retrieve energy level'`.

```js
const robot = {
  _model: '1E78V2',
  _energyLevel: 100,
  get energyLevel() {
    if (typeof this._energyLevel === 'number') {
      return `My current energy level is ${this._energyLevel}`
    } else {
      return 'System malfunction: cannot retrieve energy level'
    }
  }
};
```



**4.**

Log the result of calling the getter method `energyLevel` on `robot` to the console.

Notice that the method will return a formatted response rather than just accessing a property!

```js
const robot = {
  _model: '1E78V2',
  _energyLevel: 100,
  get energyLevel() {
    if (typeof this._energyLevel === 'number') {
      return `My current energy level is ${this._energyLevel}`
    } else {
      return 'System malfunction: cannot retrieve energy level'
    }
  }
};
console.log(robot.energyLevel);
```



## 6. Setters

Along with getter methods, we can also create *setter* methods which reassign values of existing properties within an object. Let’s see an example of a setter method:

```js
const person = {
  _age: 37,
  set age(newAge){
    if (typeof newAge === 'number'){
      this._age = newAge;
    } else {
      console.log('You must assign a number to age');
    }
  }
};
```

Notice that in the example above:

- We can perform a check for what value is being assigned to `this._age`.
- When we use the setter method, only values that are numbers will reassign `this._age`
- There are different outputs depending on what values are used to reassign `this._age`.

Then to use the setter method:

```js
person.age = 40;
console.log(person._age); // Logs: 40
person.age = '40'; // Logs: You must assign a number to age
```

Setter methods like `age` do not need to be called with a set of parentheses. Syntactically, it looks like we’re reassigning the value of a property.

Like getter methods, there are similar advantages to using setter methods that include checking input, performing actions on properties, and displaying a clear intention for how the object is supposed to be used. Nonetheless, even with a setter method, it is still possible to directly reassign properties. For example, in the example above, we can still set `._age` directly:

```js
person._age = 'forty-five'
console.log(person._age); // Prints forty-five
```



### Instructions

```js
const robot = {
  _model: '1E78V2',
  _energyLevel: 100,
  _numOfSensors: 15,
  get numOfSensors(){
    if(typeof this._numOfSensors === 'number'){
      return this._numOfSensors;
    } else {
      return 'Sensors are currently down.'
    }
  },
  
};
```



**1.**

Currently, in `robot` there is a getter method for `numOfSensors` but no setter method! What if we need to add or remove some sensors? Let’s fix that problem.

Add a setter method named `numOfSensors` using the `set` keyword. Provide a parameter of `num`. Leave the function body empty for now.

```js
const robot = {
  _model: '1E78V2',
  _energyLevel: 100,
  _numOfSensors: 15,
  get numOfSensors(){
    if(typeof this._numOfSensors === 'number'){
      return this._numOfSensors;
    } else {
      return 'Sensors are currently down.'
    }
  },
  set numOfSensors(num) {
    
  } 
};
```



**2.**

There are a couple of things we should do in the setter method:

- Add a check to see if `num` is a number using the `typeof` operator.
- `num` should also be greater than or equal to `0`.
- If both conditions are met, reassign `this._numOfSensors` to `num`.

```js
const robot = {
  _model: '1E78V2',
  _energyLevel: 100,
  _numOfSensors: 15,
  get numOfSensors(){
    if(typeof this._numOfSensors === 'number'){
      return this._numOfSensors;
    } else {
      return 'Sensors are currently down.'
    }
  },
  set numOfSensors(num) {
    if (typeof num === 'number' && num >= 0) {
      this._numOfSensors = num;
    }
  } 
};
```



**3.**

Now add an `else` that logs `'Pass in a number that is greater than or equal to 0'` to the console.

```js
const robot = {
  _model: '1E78V2',
  _energyLevel: 100,
  _numOfSensors: 15,
  get numOfSensors(){
    if(typeof this._numOfSensors === 'number'){
      return this._numOfSensors;
    } else {
      return 'Sensors are currently down.'
    }
  },
  set numOfSensors(num) {
    if (typeof num === 'number' && num >= 0) {
      this._numOfSensors = num;
    } else {
      console.log('Pass in a number that is greater than or equal to 0');
    }
  } 
};
```



**4.**

Use the `numOfSensors` setter method on `robot` to assign `_numOfSensors` to `100`.

```js
robot.numOfSensors = 100;
```



**5.**

To check that the setter method worked, `console.log()` `robot.numOfSensors`.

```js
console.log(robot.numOfSensors);
```



## 7. Factory Functions

So far we’ve been creating objects individually, but there are times where we want to create many instances of an object quickly. Here’s where *factory functions* come in. A real world factory manufactures multiple copies of an item quickly and on a massive scale. A factory function is a function that returns an object and can be reused to make multiple object instances. Factory functions can also have parameters allowing us to customize the object that gets returned.

Let’s say we wanted to create an object to represent monsters in JavaScript. There are many different types of monsters and we could go about making each monster individually but we can also use a factory function to make our lives easier. To achieve this diabolical plan of creating multiple monsters objects, we can use a factory function that has parameters:

```js
const monsterFactory = (name, age, energySource, catchPhrase) => {
  return { 
    name: name,
    age: age, 
    energySource: energySource,
    scare() {
      console.log(catchPhrase);
    } 
  }
};
```

In the `monsterFactory` function above, it has four parameters and returns an object that has the properties: `name`, `age`, `energySource`, and `scare()`. To make an object that represents a specific monster like a ghost, we can call `monsterFactory` with the necessary arguments and assign the return value to a variable:

```js
const ghost = monsterFactory('Ghouly', 251, 'ectoplasm', 'BOO!');
ghost.scare(); // 'BOO!'
```

Now we have a `ghost` object as a result of calling `monsterFactory()` with the needed arguments. With `monsterFactory` in place, we don’t have to create an object literal every time we need a new monster. Instead, we can invoke the `monsterFactory` function with the necessary arguments to ~~take over the world~~ make a monster for us!



### Instructions

**1.**

Instead of making individual robots like we’ve been doing, let’s make a factory function to make robots as we please!

Create a factory function named `robotFactory` that has two parameters `model` and `mobile`. Make the function return an object. In the object, add a key of `model` with the value of the `model` parameter. Add another property that has a key of `mobile` with a value of the `mobile` parameter.

Then add a method named `beep` without a parameter that will log `'Beep Boop'` to the console.

```js
const robotFactory = (model, mobile) => {
  return {
    model: model,
    mobile: mobile,
    beep() {
      console.log('Beep Boop');
    }
  }
}
```



**2.**

Use your factory function by declaring a `const` variable named `tinCan`. Assign to `tinCan` the value of calling `robotFactory` with the first argument of `'P-500'` and the second argument of `true`.

```js
const tinCan = robotFactory('P-500', true);
```



**3.**

Let’s now check what `tinCan` can do! Call `.beep()` on `tinCan`.

You should see `'Beep Boop'` printed to the console which means the factory function produced a robot object! Play around with `tinCan` to check the other properties!

```js
const robotFactory = (model, mobile) => {
  return {
    model: model,
    mobile: mobile,
    beep() {
      console.log('Beep Boop');
    }
  }
}
const tinCan = robotFactory('P-500', true);
tinCan.beep();
```





## 8. Property Value Shorthand

ES6 introduced some new shortcuts for assigning properties to variables known as *destructuring*. 解构

In the previous exercise, we created a factory function that helped us create objects. We had to assign each property a key and value even though the key name was the same as the parameter name we assigned to it. To remind ourselves, here’s a truncated version of the factory function:

```js
const monsterFactory = (name, age) => {
  return { 
    name: name,
    age: age
  }
};
```

Imagine if we had to include more properties, that process would quickly become tedious! But we can use a destructuring technique, called *property value shorthand*, to save ourselves some keystrokes. The example below works exactly like the example above:

```js
const monsterFactory = (name, age) => {
  return { 
    name,
    age 
  }
};
```

Notice that we don’t have to repeat ourselves for property assignments!



### Instructions

```js
function robotFactory(model, mobile){
  return {
    model: model,
    mobile: mobile,
    beep() {
      console.log('Beep Boop');
    }
  }
}

// To check that the property value shorthand technique worked:
const newRobot = robotFactory('P-501', false)
console.log(newRobot.model)
console.log(newRobot.mobile)
```



**1.**

Use the property value shorthand and refactor the factory function in **main.js**

```js
function robotFactory(model, mobile){
  return {
    model,
    mobile,
    beep() {
      console.log('Beep Boop');
    }
  }
}

// To check that the property value shorthand technique worked:
const newRobot = robotFactory('P-501', false)
console.log(newRobot.model)
console.log(newRobot.mobile)
```



## 9. Destructured Assignment 解构赋值

We often want to extract key-value pairs from objects and save them as variables. Take for example the following object:

```js
const vampire = {
  name: 'Dracula',
  residence: 'Transylvania',
  preferences: {
    day: 'stay inside',
    night: 'satisfy appetite'
  }
};
```

If we wanted to extract the `residence` 处所，居所 property as a variable, we could using the following code: 

```js
const residence = vampire.residence; 
console.log(residence); // Prints 'Transylvania' 
```

However, we can also take advantage of a destructuring technique called *destructured assignment* to save ourselves some keystrokes. In destructured assignment we create a variable with the name of an object’s key that is wrapped in curly braces `{ }` and assign to it the object. Take a look at the example below: 把对象里面，同名的属性提取出来。

```js
const { residence } = vampire; 
console.log(residence); // Prints 'Transylvania'
```

Look back at the `vampire` object’s properties in the first code example. Then, in the example above, we declare a new variable `residence` that extracts the value of the `residence` property of `vampire`. When we log the value of `residence` to the console, `'Transylvania'` is printed.

We can even use destructured assignment to grab nested properties of an object:  嵌套的属性，也可以解构出来

```js
const { day } = vampire.preferences; 
console.log(day); // Prints 'stay inside'
```



### Instructions

```js
const robot = {
  model: '1E78V2',
  energyLevel: 100,
  functionality: {
    beep() {
      console.log('Beep Boop');
    },
    fireLaser() {
      console.log('Pew Pew');
    },
  }
};

```



**1.**

Use destructured assignment to create a `const` variable named `functionality` that extracts the `functionality` property of `robot`.

If you need a reminder on how to use destructured assignment, review the example in the narrative or check the hint.

```js
const { functionality } = robot;
```



**2.**

Since `functionality` is referencing `robot.functionality` we can call the methods available to `robot.functionality` simply through `functionality`.

Take advantage of this shortcut and call the `.beep()` method on `functionality`.

```js
functionality.beep();
```





## 10. Built-in Object Methods

In the previous exercises we’ve been creating instances of objects that have their own methods. But, we can also take advantage of built-in methods for Objects!

For example, we have access to object instance methods like: `.hasOwnProperty()`, `.valueOf()`, and many more! Practice your documentation reading skills and check out: [MDN’s object instance documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object#Methods).

There are also useful Object class methods such as `Object.assign()`, `Object.entries()`, and `Object.keys()` just to name a few. For a comprehensive list, browse: [MDN’s object instance documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object#Methods_of_the_Object_constructor). 完整的

Let’s get acquainted with some of these methods and their documentation.

Note: You will see errors as you work through this exercise, but by the end the errors will be fixed!



### Instructions

**1.**

In **main.js** there is an object, `robot`. We’d like to grab the property names, otherwise known as keys, and save the keys in an array which is assigned to `robotKeys`. However, there’s something missing in the method call.

Find out what we have to include by reading [MDN’s `Object.keys()` documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/keys).



**2.**

`Object.entries()` will also return an array, but the array will contain more arrays that have both the key and value of the properties in an object.

Declare a `const` variable named `robotEntries` and assign to it the entries of `robot` by calling `Object.entries()`.

To find how to use `Object.entries()`, read [the documentation at MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/entries).



**3.**

Now what if we want another object that has the properties of `robot` but with a few additional properties. `Object.assign()` sounds like a great method to use, but like the previous examples we should check [Object.assign() documentation at MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/assign).

Declare a `const` variable named `newRobot`. `newRobot` will be a new object that has all the properties of `robot` and the properties in the following object: `{laserBlaster: true, voiceRecognition: true}`. Make sure that you are **not** changing the `robot` object!

```js
const robot = {
	model: 'SAL-1000',
  mobile: true,
  sentient: false,
  armor: 'Steel-plated',
  energyLevel: 75
};

// What is missing in the following method call?
const robotKeys = Object.keys(robot);

console.log(robotKeys);

// Declare robotEntries below this line:
const robotEntries = Object.entries(robot);

console.log(robotEntries);

// Declare newRobot below this line:
const newRobot = Object.assign({}, robot, {laserBlaster: true, voiceRecognition: true});
console.log(newRobot);
```





## 11. Review

Congratulations on finishing Advanced Objects!

Let’s review the concepts covered in this lesson:

- The object that a method belongs to is called the *calling object*.
- The `this` keyword refers the calling object and can be used to access properties of the calling object.
- Methods do not automatically have access to other internal properties of the calling object.
- The value of `this` depends on where the `this` is being accessed from.
- We cannot use arrow functions as methods if we want to access other internal properties.
- JavaScript objects do not have built-in privacy, rather there are conventions to follow to notify other developers about the intent of the code.
- The usage of an underscore before a property name means that the original developer did not intend for that property to be directly changed.
- Setters and getter methods allow for more detailed ways of accessing and assigning properties.
- Factory functions allow us to create object instances quickly and repeatedly.
- There are different ways to use object destructuring: one way is the property value shorthand and another is destructured assignment.
- As with any concept, it is a good skill to learn how to use the documentation with objects!

You’re ready to start leveraging more elegant code for creating and accessing objects in your code!

Leveraging 利用

