## 常用终端命令

### 浏览文件系统

- `pwd`: print working directory
- `cd`: change directory
	+ `cd ..`
- `ls`: lists all files and directories in working directory.
- `mkdir`: make directory
- `touch`: creates new file.

- `clear`: clears the terminal
- `TAB`: autocompletes the name of a file or directory.
- `up and down arrow`: circle through previous commands.


## BASH
Command Line Interfaces(CLIs).
- most used and widely distributed shell.
- Default shell on Linux and Mac OS.

### Mac Users
have to install nothing.

### Windows Users
- Default Command Prompt: Not good as Bash.
- Install Git Bash.

### Try it out!

```bash
ls 
mkdir test
ls
cd test
echo "Hello Command Line" >> hello_cli.txt
ls
cat hello_cli.txt
```

## 代码编辑器
applications used by developers to write code.

- Language-specific syntax highlighting
- Automatic code indentation
- Color schemes to suit your preferences and make code easier to read
- Plug-ins, or add-on programs, to catch errors in code
- A tree view, or visual representation, of a project’s folders and files, so you can conveniently navigate your project
- Key shortcuts, or combinations, for faster development



### Visual Studio Code. 
Some of the benefits of this editor are:

+ Free to use
+ Open-source, (meaning a program’s code can be viewed, modified, and shared)
+ IDE-like features
+ Supported by a large community of users and Microsoft

### Install VS Code


### Custom VS Code with Extension Marketplace
Some recommendations are Prettier, eslint, and npm. Here they are for easy download!
- [Prettier](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode)
- [eslint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)
- [npm](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eg2.vscode-npm-script)
- [Adobe XD](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Adobe.xd)



### VS Code and JavaScript
VS Code 对 JavaScript 做了很好的支持。
- 类型检查
- 遗漏的属性
