## ES 6
ES6 ultimately allows programmers to save time and write more concise code. 
Take for example pre-ES6 syntax for function expressions:
```javascript
var greeting = function() {
  console.log('Hello World!');  
};
```
With ES6 arrow functions, we can transform the expression above into:
```javascript
const greeting = () => console.log('Hello World');
```

However, arrow functions are not just simply syntactical re-writes. 
- Benefits such as new ES6 syntax, makes it easier to utilize a popular programming paradigm, Object Oriented Programming (OOP)
- Another reason for the popularity of ES6 is correlated with the usage of ES6 in popular frameworks like React. 

This being said, we shouldn’t disregard legacy code, i.e. older versions of JavaScript. In fact,there are still many projects that are built and maintained with legacy code! If you want the ability and freedom to work on any sort of JavaScript project, you should familiarize yourself with pre-ES6 and ES6 JavaScript syntax. 


## MDN Resource
[MDN Javascript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript).

## Get Started with Running JavaScript in The Console
- [Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/console/javascript)


## Node
a JavaScript runtime for building server-side or desktop applications.

### Why Node?
- uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model.”
    perform many asynchronous activities such as reading and writing to the file system, handling connections to database servers, or handling requests as a web server.

```javascript
const fs = require('fs');
 
fs.readFile('./script.js', function(error, data) {
  // error is null if no error occurred, but an Error object if it did
  if (error) {
   throw error;
  }
  // the file data will be passed into the callback if no error was thrown
  console.log(data);
});
```
### Setting up Node Locally
Node.js is a JavaScript runtime, or an environment which runs JavaScript code outside of the browser.


**LTS** stands for Long Term Support.
